# Computer-Vision-Method-For-Fire-Detection

INTRODUCTION:

Computer Vision Method for fire detection & alarm system to detect fires by analyzing visual data, employing computer vision techniques and machine learning algorithms to provide timely alerts.Cameras can be used for other security purposes as well, such as surveillance and monitoring, offering a multi-functional solution. Computer Vision Method for fire detection & alarm system to detect fires by analyzing visual data, employing computer vision techniques and machine learning algorithms to provide timely alerts. Cameras can be used for other security purposes as well, such as surveillance and monitoring, offering a multi-functional solution. Cameras provide detailed visual data, enabling the detection of fire characteristics like color, shape, and movement, which can improve accuracy in identifying fires. A single camera can monitor a larger area compared to multiple point sensors, reducing the number of devices needed.The fire detection system is a security system. The primary function of this system is to detect fires and turn on alarm to warn fire accidents. This system is written in python with OpenCV computer vision module. It is using the HSV color algorithm to detect fires.This project provides a computer vision based technique for detecting fire and identifying hazardous fire by processing the video data generated by an ordinary camera.



TECHNOLOGIES:

1.) Python

2.) OpenCV

3.) SMTPLIB

4.) HSV color Algorithm



Configuration & Setup

Install playsound :  pip install playsound

Install OpnCV: pip install opencv-python



Execution:
  python visionfiredetection.py
